
	
		An algorithm for semantic interpretation is explained.
		The algorithm is based on predicatesdefined for WordNet verb classes.
		The algorithm is driven by the definition of these predicates whose thematic roles are linked to theWordNet ontology for nouns and to the syntactic relations that realize them.
		The algorithm has been tested in the identification of the meaning of the verb, thematic roles, and temporal and spatial adjuncts.
	
	
			The semantic interpretation algorithm ex plained in this paper offers a solution to thefollowing interpretation problems: determina tion of the meaning of the verb, identification of thematic roles and adjuncts, and attachments of prepositional phrases (PPs).
			An interesting aspect of the algorithm is that the solution ofall these problems is interdependent.
			The inter pretation algorithm uses WordNet (Miller et al., 1993) as its lexical knowledge-base.
			Predicates,or verbal concepts, have been defined for Word Net verb classes, which have been reorganized considerably following the criteria imposed bythe interpretation algorithm.
			WordNet ontology for nouns has also undergone some reorga nization and redefinition to conform with the entries in the thematic roles of the predicates.
			One of the views that guides this research is that the syntax of many verbs is determined by theirmeaning.
			Some verbs that are highly ambigu ous, say more than 10 senses, and light verbs,which do not lexicalize anything, will need spe cial definitions.
			Briefly, the algorithm is as follows.
			For every verb in a sentence, WordNet provides a list ofverb synsets for which we have defined predicates.
			These predicates can be viewed as contenders for the meaning of the verb.
			As syntac tic relations are parsed, the interpreter checks each predicate in order to see if the predicatehas a thematic role which is realized by the syn tactic relation.
			If so, the interpreter records this fact and gets the next syntactic relation.
			Thepredicate that realizes the most syntactic rela tions in the sentence is selected as the meaning of the verb.
			This paper is organized as follows.
			The first part of the paper - sections 2 to 5 - explains themethodology for building predicates for Word Net verb classes, and the second part - sections 6 to 9 - describes the semantic interpretation algorithm, testing and conclusions.
	
	
			Verb Classes One of the problems of linking WordNet verbclasses (Fellbaum, 1993) to the semantic in terpretation process is that WordNet does notpresent a classification of verbs based on semantic decomposition, but rather one based on rela tional semantic analysis, in which lexical itemsare taken as irreducible meaning units.
			Al though a full semantic decomposition of verbs (Jackendoff, 1990; Talmy, 1985; Dowty, 1979), much less one that reduces verbs to a small setof primitives (Schank, 1975), is not very rele vant to semantic interpretation, some abstract semantic predicates are needed to anchor classesof verbs and their subclasses.
			These abstract semantic predicates and their more specific sub predicates contain the selectional restrictions and syntactic relations for the thematic roles defining them.
			The entries in the predicateswill be used by the semantic interpreter to at tach modifiers and to link syntactic relations tosemantic ones.
			Although WordNet does not ex plicitly recognize conceptual components, these are implicitly present in the relations linking subordinate verbs to superordinate verbs.
			The main relation linking a subordinate verb to its superordinate, is that of troponymy (Fellbaum, 1993), meaning that to V/ is to 17,2 in someparticular manner, where manner covers a di verse class of semantic relations, including the intention of the agent of the action, the wayin which the action is carried out, the instru ment, etc. Thus, we have taken a top-downapproach that defines generic abstract predi cates subsuming semantically and syntactically a large class of verbs.
			WordNet verb classes have been mapped into these generic predicates.Some of this mapping has required us to define new classes and to reclassify and/or rede fine some WordNet classes and subclasses.
			Two major consequences derive from anchoring verbclasses in abstract semantic predicates: coalesc ing many WordNet senses into a predicate, and mapping the same WordNet synset into distinct predicates.
			For instance, all the 5 synsets listed by WordNet for &amp;quot;travel&amp;quot;: &amp;quot;trave11, go, move, locomote;&amp;quot; &amp;quot;trave12, journey;&amp;quot; &amp;quot;trave13, take a trip, make a trip;&amp;quot; &amp;quot;trave14, journey;&amp;quot; and&amp;quot;travel5 (undergo transportation, as in a vehi cle)&amp;quot; can be coalesced into the abstract semantic predicate change-of-location-by-animate.
			This predicate defines a class of verbs containing the most generic properties shared by all membersof the class.
			The differentia between this pred icate and its subpredicates are given by one or more of the following: a) specific selectional restrictions for the thematic roles, b) different syntactic realizations of the thematic roles, and c) specific sets of inferences associated with the subpredicates.
			For instance, the instrument of the predicate drive-a-vehicle, not to be confused with the verb &amp;quot;drive,&amp;quot; is always a vehicle, while the instrument of change-of-location-by-animate can be an animate, an animate body part, etc.The instrument of drive-a-vehicle is never re alized by a subject, while the instrument ofthe generic predicate can be realized by a sub ject, e.g., &amp;quot;This bus goes to Cambridge every Wednesday.&amp;quot; Note that in the sentence &amp;quot;This car/bus drives well&amp;quot; the meaning of &amp;quot;drive&amp;quot; is not change-of-location-by-animate.
			On the other hand, migrate differs fromchange-of-location-by-animate only by the spe cific inferences associated with this predicate.
			The inferences derived from &amp;quot;Three hundred Irishmen migrated to Boston last year&amp;quot; wouldbe very different had the main verb been &amp;quot;trav eled,&amp;quot; yet there are no differences between theselectional restrictions and syntactic realizations for the predicates migrate and travel.
			Sub predicates inherit all the thematic roles notlisted in their definitions from their parent pred icates.
			The number and nature of the thematicroles depend on the generic predicates and subpredicates, and not on some general criteria re gardless of each predicate (Fillmore, 1968).
			See (Gomez, 1998) for a discussion.
	
	
			The syntax of roles in the predicates that willbe defined below is given by the following gram mar: S -&gt; (ROLE L); ROLE -&gt; agentIthemel..
			L -&gt; (SM) (SR) LI (SM) (SR) SM -&gt; ONTOLOGICAL-CAT SMIONTOLOGICAL-CAT SM -&gt; -ONTOLOGICAL-CAT SMIONTOLOGICAL-CAT SR -&gt; SYNTACTIC-REL SRISYNTACTICREL SYNTACTIC-REL -&gt; (prep PREP)IsubjI IobjIobj2Isubj-if-objIsubj-if-no-objI Iobj-if-obj2IpredicatecomplementI IcomplementphraseIadjective-phrase PREP -&gt; ANY-PREP PREPI ANY-PREP ONTOLOGICAL-CAT -&gt;thingIphysicalthingI...
			ANY-PREP -&gt; onlinl....
			Each thematic role is followed by any numberof list pairs.
			The first list contains the selec tional restrictions, a subset of the ontological categories in WordNet, in order of preference(Wilks, 1975) for the thematic role, and the second list contains the syntactic relations (hence forth, SRs) that may realize the thematic role.
			For any given sentence, only one of the SRs inthe list realizes the role.
			An ontological cate gory preceded by the sign &amp;quot;-&amp;quot; in a selectional restriction means that the thematic role is not realized by that ontological category.
			The entry obj refers to the first postverbal NP, obj2 to the second postverbal NP.
			Subj-if-obj refers to the subject of a sentence that also has an object(the verb is used transitively), and subj-if-no obj refers to the subject of a sentence containingno object (the verb is used intransitively).
			Obj if-obj2 refers to the obj of a sentence having also an obj2 (the verb is used ditransitively).
			Thus, [communicate (is-a (interact)) (wn-map (communicate2) (transfer2)) (agent (human-agent animal ) (subj)) (theme ( abstraction) (cp obj obj2) (thing) ((prep about of)) (abstraction) ((prep on))) (recipient (human-agent animal) (obj obj-if-obj2 (prep to))) (medium-of-expression (written-communication)(subj (prep in))) The wn-map entry means that all the WordNetverb forms under &amp;quot;communicate2&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;transfer2&amp;quot; are in principle coalesced into the predi cate communicate.
			These two synsets include over 2000 verb forms.
			The synset transfer2 in WordNet is a subclass of move, displace4,which includes physical things as the things being transferred or moved.
			However, our predicate communicate and its subpredicates encom pass the transfer of information, thoughts and abstractions in general by an animate being to another, excluding the transfer of physicalthings.
			Subpredicates of the predicate commu nicate will be defined as explained below.
			But, if they were not defined, then any form that is mapped by WordNet into any of these two synsets would be mapped into the predicate communicate.
			Of course, if the form is alsomapped by WordNet into another synset be sides any of the senses of &amp;quot;communicate2,&amp;quot; or&amp;quot;transfer2&amp;quot; then it will be mapped into what ever predicate we identify for that synset.
			The entry agent indicates that the agents of communicate are entities belonging to the classes animal or human-agent (a human, or a social-group).
			It also indicates that the agent is realized syntactically by the subject of the sentence.
			The theme role contains three pairs of lists.
			The first pair expresses this role when it is syntactically realized by a cp (complementphrase), obj (first postverbal NP) or obj2 (sec ond postverbal NP).
			The selectional restrictions for theme when it is syntactically realized by cp, obj or obj2 is abstraction.
			The second pair of lists indicate that the theme may also be syntactically realized by theprepositions &amp;quot;of&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;about,&amp;quot; and the selectional restriction is &amp;quot;thing,&amp;quot; which includes ev ery entity in the ontology.
			Lastly, the final pair indicates that the theme can be realizedby the preposition &amp;quot;on,&amp;quot; and the selectional re striction is abstraction.
			The sign &amp;quot;-&amp;quot; preceding a selectional restriction means that any noun sense that is subsumed by the semantic category preceded by &amp;quot;-&amp;quot; does not realize that thematic role.
			Thus, if one had written &amp;quot;-human-agent&amp;quot; in the selectional restriction for the theme whenit is syntactically realized by obj, the inter preter would not have taken &amp;quot;President,&amp;quot; or &amp;quot;Congress&amp;quot; as the theme in &amp;quot;He briefed the ] President/Congress.&amp;quot; Of course, in this case this is unneeded because human-agent is notan abstraction in the ontology.
			The recipi ent role is syntactically realized by obj, (e.g., &amp;quot;He informed the President&amp;quot;), by obj-if-obj2, (e.g., &amp;quot;She told the judge the truth.&amp;quot;), and the preposition &amp;quot;to,&amp;quot; (e.g., &amp;quot;She told the truth to the judge.&amp;quot;), and the selectional restrictions arehuman-agent and animal.
			The role medium-of expression indicates the medium used for thetransfer of information and is syntactically re alized by a subject (e.g., &amp;quot;The first book tells of her youth and early studies,&amp;quot; or the preposion &amp;quot;in&amp;quot; (e.g., &amp;quot;In her first book, she tells of youngwomen who react violently against a dehuman ized society.&amp;quot;) Subpredicates of the predicate communicate are defined.
			For instance, consider the WordNetsynset &amp;quot;teach1, learn, instruct&amp;quot; which has com municate2 as its superclass.
			This synset forms a class in WN with over 40 entries.
			Below, it is the hierarchy for the predicate teach and some of its subpredicates, which are listed followed by the corresponding synsets in WordNet.
			teach (wn-map (teachl) ) ( s-a ( communi cat e ) ) * train (wn-map (trainl train2) ) * indoctrinate (wn-map ( indoctr inat e 1) ) * lecture (wn-map (le cture 1) ) * educate (wn-map ( educat e 1) )Space limitation impedes us to list the definitions for these predicates, but some of the dif subj refers to the subject of a sentence without expressing any context about the transitivity or intransitivity of the verb.
	
	
			In this section, we explain the predicate com municate so that the algorithm may be followed by the reader.
			Other definitions of predicates may be found in (Gomez, 1998).
			ferences between teach and its superpredicate, communicate are as follows.
			The definition forthe predicate teach is identical to that of com municate, except that the theme is not realized by the preposition &amp;quot;of.&amp;quot; Its subpredicates train, lecture, and educate do not realize syntactically the theme with an obj, and so on.
			Educate1 isnot a subclass of teach in WordNet, but of pol ish, which in turn it is a subclass of better 2 and this of change1.
			We have classified educate1 as a subpredicate of teach because it shares more thematic roles and inferences with this predicate than with any other.
			The complete hierarchy for communicate that we have defined includes over 124 predicates.
	
	
			Predicates As of this writing, we have defined over 1300 predicates and mapped 85% of WordNet verb classes into predicates.
			The final product thatis coming out from this effort differs very con siderably from WordNet verb classes because of the different criteria for predicate classes.
			The definition of predicates has proceeded on a top down manner, namely defining predicatesand subpredicates for WordNet classes and subclasses, respectively.
			This has required a con siderable amount of work, because of the need to redefine and reorganize the WordNet verb classes, and, to a lesser extent, the ontologyfor nouns.
			For instance, the concept written communication, which has many subconcepts,is categorized in Wordnet only as an abstrac tion.
			Thus, the interpreter failed to interpretsuch simple sentences as &amp;quot;She burned the let ter/She put the letter on the table,&amp;quot; because &amp;quot;letter&amp;quot; does not have physical-thing as one of its hypernyms (superconcepts).
			The changes to the ontology of nouns took much of our intial effort because many of interpreter failures were due to the noun ontology.
			We are finishing a report that describes these changes, which have resulted into a noun ontology whose content andstructure have been determined by the seman tic interpretation algorithm, rather than by our intuitions about how to categorize ontologically a concept.
			But, now that most predicate classes have been defined and that the reorganization and structure of the ontology for nouns is close to completion, there is considerable room for the semiautomatic construction of predicates for those individual verbs that, because of theirhigh polysemy, require predicate definitions tai lored to them.
			For our developing purposes, we have used an electronic version of the The World Book Encyclopedia (World Book, Ic., Chicago,1987).
			We have partioned the articles into sub ject classes.
			We have grouped all articles that deal with biographies, all those about animals, about countries, diseases, etc. Each class forms a corpus in which the verb senses and the nounontology exhibit certain common features.
			Di verse functions skim the articles extracting all sentences in which a verb (or any word) is used.
			The sentence is passed to the parser and, then, to the semantic interpreter for interpretation.When a failure in interpretation occurs be cause of one of the following reasons: a) the sense of the verb was not correctly identified,b) no meaning was assigned to a syntactic re lation, or c) a thematic role or an adjunct wasincorrectly identified, several functions are activated.
			These functions skim the classes of ar ticles searching for sentences which share some syntactic and semantic properties with the ones that the interpeter fails to interpret.
			Thus, if the interpreter fails to identify some thematicroles in a sentence, the syntactic similarity al gorithm selects all those sentences containingthe syntactic relations that realize the unidenti fied thematic roles.
			Then, the algorithm choosesfrom those sentences those in which the ontolog ical category of the head nouns of the syntactic relations are semantically similar as defined by Resnik (Resnik, 1999).
			Then, the user selects from these ontological categories the selectionalrestrictions for the thematic roles of the predicate being defined.
			In many cases, the onto logical categories proposed by the acquisitionalgorithm are the exact ones, requiring little in tervention on the part of the user.
	
	
			The semantic interpretation algorithm is acti vated by the parser after parsing a clause.
			Thus, interpretation does not start until the end of the clause is reached.
			The interpreter requiresfrom the parser an identification of the NP com plements and PPs of the clause, or sentence.Our parser recognizes clausal and NP comple ments, relative clauses, resolves gaps resulting from questions and relativization, and handles coordination and subordination.
			It does not resolve structural ambiguity, which is the soletask of the interpreter.
			Our mapping of Word Net verb synsets to predicates provides a list containing the predicates for the verb of theclause.
			The goals of the algorithm are to se lect one predicate from that list, attach PPs and identify thematic roles.
			All these tasks aresimultaneously achieved.
			For each syntactic relation in the clause (starting with the NP com plements) and for every predicate in the list of predicates, the algorithm checks if the predicateexplains the SR (syntactic relation).
			A predi cate explains an SR if there is a thematic role inthe predicate realized by the SR and the selec tional restrictions of the thematic role subsume the ontological category of the head noun of the syntactic relation.
			This process is repeated for each SR in the clause and each predicate in thelist of predicates.
			Then, the predicate that ex plains the most SRs is selected as the meaning of the verb.
			The thematic roles of the predicate have been identified as result of this process.
			In case of ties, the predicate that has the greater number of thematic roles realized is selected.
			The algorithm in greater detail is as follows.
			Step I. Get the definitions of the predicates which the verb of the clause may stand for.
			Put those predicates in the list VC-L.
			(Our mapping of WordNet synsets to predicates produces that list.)Step II.
			Check which thematic roles in every VC in VC-L are realized by the NP comple ments of the clause, starting with the subject: 1.
			Match Subj (pre-verbal NP) Let HN-OF-.
			SUBJ be the head noun of the subject of the clause.
			1.1 For every VC in VC-L, initialize the list.
			Matches to nil.
			Match the subj selectional restrictions in VC against the senses of HN-OF SUBJ.
			Store the result in the list Matches.
			SaveMatches under VC.
			End For.
			(The match algo rithm is explained below.)
			1.2 If the clause has an object, For every VC.
			in VC-L initialize the list Matches to nil.
			Match the subj-if-obj selectional restrictions in the VC against the senses of HN-OF-SUBJ.
			Store the result in Matches.
			Save Matches under VC.
			End For.
			1.3 Else If the clause has no object, For every.
			VC in VC-L initialize the list Matches to nil.
			Match the subj-if-no-obj selectional restrictions in the VC against the senses of HN-OF-SUBJ.Store the result in Matches.
			Save Matches un der VC.
			End For.
			2.
			Match obj and obj2 (post-verbal NPs)..
			Let HN-OF-OBJ be the head noun of the obj in the clause.
			Let HN-OF-OBJ2 be the head noun of obj 2 in the clause.
			2.1 If the clause has an obj, then.
			2.1.1 For each verbal concept VC in VC-L, initialize Matches to nil.
			Match the obj-if-obj2 selectional restrictions in VC against the senses of HN-OF-OBJ.
			Store the results in Matches.
			Save Matches under VC.
			End For.
			2.1.2 For each verbal concept VC in VC-L,initialize Matches to nil.
			Match the obj 2 selec tional restrictions in VC-L against the senses of HN-OF-OBJ2.
			Save Matches under VC.
			End For.
			2.2 Else if the clause has no obj, For each.
			verbal concept VC in VC-L, initialize Matches to nil.
			Match the obj selectional restrictions in VC against the senses of HN-OF-OBJ.
			Save Matches under VC.
			End For.
			Step III.
			Match post-verbal PPs.
			For every VC in VC-L do For every PP starting with the one placed immediately after the verb (left to right) do: If the preposition of the PP is listed in the representation of VC and the selectional restrictions in the VC for that preposition match the senses of the head noun of the PP, then save this result under VC.
			End For.
			End For.
			A match of a PP results in identifying the thematic role for that VC.
			The Match AlgorithmThe algorithm match that matches the se mantic categories in the selectional restrictions against the senses of a noun is given below.
			The algorithm consists of an outer loop and two unnested inner loops.
			The inner loops iterate in each noun sense.
			One of the inner loops handlesthe exclusionary semantic categories (those pre ceded by &amp;quot;-&amp;quot;) and another the confirmatory ones (not preceded by &amp;quot;-&amp;quot;).
			The outer loop iterates in the selectional restrictions in the thematic roles until a confirmatory category subsumes a nounsense, or the list of selectional restrictions is ex hausted.
			Let SLR (selectional restrictions) for a thematic role be = slri, slr2, ...srlr, and HP, (the senses of a noun after being mapped into the core ontology) be = hp&apos;, hp2...hp,„. Each hp, has the form (ontological-category noun/ noun2 nouni).
			The first element in hp, is the ontological category.
			Set match-sir = nil.
			Loopl: For each r in SLR do If r is an exclusionary semantic category then For each hp in HP do If r subsumes the first element in hp then delete hp from HP End for If r is a confirmatory semantic category then For each hp in HP do If r subsumes the first element in hp then begin Save the match; Set match-sir = t; end End for If match-sir is t then exit Loopl End Loopl Step IV.
			After running the algorithm, theVCs are ranked placing first the one that explains the most syntactic relations in the sen tence and last the one that explains the least number of syntactic relations.
			If several VCs are tied, then they ranked by placing first the VC that has the greater number of thematic roles realized by the clause and last the one that has the least number.
			If, after this filter, there are still VCs that are tied, the algorithm selects the VC that corresponds to the most frequent verb sense as defined by WordNet.
			Although two VCs may explain the same number of syntactic relations, one of them may have more thematic roles realized.
			This is due to the fact that the same syntactic relation may realize more than a thematic role.
			For instance, the subject of verbs that express a change of location by an animate being may realize both the theme and the agent.
			Thus, in the sentence &amp;quot;Peter ran today&amp;quot; severalVCs are going to explain all the syntactic re lations (e.g., run-a-firm, operate-a-machine, ..), but moving-by-running will have more thematic roles realized because the subject realizes the agent and theme.
			Hence, moving-by-runing ispreferred over the other VCs which have not re alized their themes.Step V. Determine adjuncts.
			Every syntactic relation that has not been mapped to a thematic role must be an adjunct or an NP modi fier.
			The entries for adjuncts are stored in the root node action and are inherited by all VCs.
			Adjuncts are identified after the meaning of the verb has been determined because adjuncts arenot part of the argument structure of the predi cate.
			Thus, in &amp;quot;Peter eats every day at school,&amp;quot; the meaning of &amp;quot;every day&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;at school&amp;quot; areidentified after the predicate has been deter mined.
			Prepositions that are listed in the action node as weakly claimed by the verb may modify the verb or a NP.
			Heuristic rules decide in those cases.
			Note that even if the parser recognizes &amp;quot;every day&amp;quot; as an object, not as a time NP, the algorithm will not take &amp;quot;every day&amp;quot; as a theme of the predicate because time will not match the selectional restrictions of ingest.
			However, the interpreter will still recognize &amp;quot;every day&amp;quot; as atemporal adjunct, because the entry for tempo ral adjunct in the node action says that it can be realized by a time-np or an obj.
			The entry obj is there just in case that the parser makes a mistake.
	
	
			In the last two years, we have conducted di verse tests and the system has been demoed in a major conference.
			We plan to demo it in this conference, which is perhaps the best test we can offer.
			Some of the tests have evaluated the performance of the algorithm in identifying subpredicates of major predicates such as change-of-location-by-animate with over1200 verb forms in Wordnet, cause-change-oflocation with over 1600 verb forms, transferof-possession with over 1500 forms, transfer-of information with over 1000 forms, and judge with 600 forms and others.Recently, we performed a bottom-up evalua tion.
			We selected 30 verbs randomly from the set of 165 verbs having more than 10 senses inWordnet.
			These were the verbs selected: ac cept break bring carry catch charge come deliver dress fall feel fly grow hold lead leave meet pass pick present ride run serve strike suffer take throw turn walk work.
			Some of these verbs actually have more than 40 senses.
			We tested the performance of the algorithm in identifying the predicate (meaning Table 1: Test Results Test1 Test2 Test3 Predicate 96% 95% 91% PP Attachment 96% 96% NA Thematic-Roles 95% 95% NA Adjuncts 97% 97% NA of the verb), the attachment of PPs, thematic roles and adjuncts.
			For our testing corpus, we used an electronic encyclopedia.
			For each verb tested a program selected ten sentences.
			This produced 300 sentences - 10 for each verb.
			A problem with this test, test1, is that it doesnot test all predicates for each of the verbs selected.
			The reason is that the sentences ran domly selected by the testing program may havethe same predicates.
			Selecting one or two sen tences per predicate is not a good evaluation procedure either because the interpreter may identify predicate p in sentence .5/, but it may fail to identify p in sentence sa Moreover, itmay identify p in s2, but it may fail to iden tify its thematic roles, adjuncts, etc. Then, we conducted test2 in which other 300 sentenceswere randomly selected but the selection pro gram discarded those sentences with a predicate already tested in testi.
			The results were very similar to testi.
			Yet, some of the less frequentpredicates for some of the verbs were not se lected by this procedure either.
			The results of both tests are in Table 2.
			Metaphoric uses of the verb were a cause of failure.
			The failure for thematic roles and PPattachment were mainly due to missing preposi tions in the thematic role entry of the predicateand overgeneralizing the definition of a subpredicate.
			That is, stating that the subpredicate in herits all or most of its thematic roles from its super-predicate when that is not the case.
			Test3 is a very recent test that was conducted on the 5000 words that were sense tagged forSIGLEX99.
			We tested the system on determin ing the meaning of the verb.
			Thematic roles, PP attachment and adjuncts are not provided in the data.
			We excluded from the test the verbs: &amp;quot;be,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;do,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;have.&amp;quot; We selected the verbs that occurred 3 or more times in the text.
			The worseperformance of the system on this text is ex plained by the fact that some of the senses in some of the verbs (&amp;quot;make,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;go,&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;come&amp;quot; especially) have not yet been covered.
	
	
			Besides the obvious influence of WordNet, this work is very much related to Palmer&apos;s VerbNet project (Dang et al., 1998), and has benefited from (Levin, 1993) and (Pritchett, 1992).
			Thelexical view expressed in this paper that the syntax of many verbs is determined by their mean ing have been also presented by (Pinker, 1989; Grimshaw, 1990; Levin, 1993) and others.
			A stronger point for which we offer some evidencein this paper, is that, if the above view is correct, then the generic predicates drive the se mantic interpretation process which will needonly a minimal syntactic analysis as that ex pressed by D-theory (Marcus et al., 1983) and minimal commitment model parsers (Weinberg,1993; Correll, 1991).
			The other guiding princi ple of this research is that the meaning of theverb depends not only on its selectional restrictions, but also on the syntactic relations that re alize them.
			A similar view has been presented in (Pustejovsky, 1995).
			The lexical aspect of this research is also related to the FrameNet project(Baker et al., 1998), which is producing frame semantic descriptions for English lexical items.
			Hirst (Hirst, 1992) also used an eliminative approach to resolve verb meaning and thematic roles simultaneously.
			The algorithm has also some similarities to the one reported in (Gomez et al., 1997), but there are major differences.
			For instance, the algorithm in (Gomez et al., 1997) relies on what the authors call VM-rules to determine the meaning of the verb.
			These rules, which are stored in the verb forms and are order sensitive, are tried as the parser parses syntactic relations.
			If one of the VM-rules fires, determining the meaning of the verb, then thethematic relations and attachment of prepositions are resolved by accessing the predicate def inition.
			However in the present algorithm, the meaning of the verb and thematic relations aresynergistically determined by the scoring algo rithm.
			This makes unnecessary the VMrulesand grounds the algorithm solely on the declar ative representations of the predicates, whose selectional restrictions are based on a general ontology of English, namely WordNet.
	
	
			We have presented an algorithm for the seman tic interpretation of unrestricted domains.
			Thealgorithm is based on the WordNet general ontology for nouns and on a definition of predicates which have been linked to the noun on tology and organized in a hierarchy in whichsubpredicates inherit thematic roles from its su perpredicates.
			The algorithm, which has been implemented in Common Lisp and is running on Sparc 5 workstations, has been tested in its ability to attach PPs, identify thematic roles and adjuncts.
	
	
			I thank Christiane Fellbaum for encouraging this work, and Carlos Segami for implementing most aspects of the algorithm.
	
