
	
		A method for the definition of verb predicates is proposed.
		The definition of the predicates isessentially tied to a semantic interpretation algorithm that determines the predicate for theverb, its semantic roles and adjuncts.
		As predicate definitions are complete, they can be tested by running the algorithm on some sentences andverifying the resolution of the predicate, semantic roles and adjuncts in those sentences.
		The predicates are defined semiautomatically with the help of a software environment that uses several sections of a corpus to provide feedback for the definition of the predicates, and then forthe subsequent testing and refining of the definitions.
		The method is very flexible in adding anew predicate to a list of already defined predicates for a given verb.
		The method builds on an existing approach that defines predicates for WordNet verb classes, and that plans to definepredicates for every English verb.
		The definitions of the predicates and the semantic interpretation algorithm are being used to automatically create a corpus of annotated verb predicates, semantic roles and adjuncts.
	
	
			This paper deals with the definition of verbpredicates which will make possible the determination of verb meaning, semantic roles, adjuncts, and attachment and meaning of postverbal PPs.
			Hence, the adequacy of the defini tions is measured by comparing the output of asemantic interpretation algorithm with the so lution of those semantic interpretation tasks on sentences randomly taken from any corpus, or typed by a user at the console.
			The algorithm,thus, must provide immediate feedback by test ing the definitions on these randomly selected sentences.
			In (Gomez, 2001), generic predicates have been defined for WordNet 1.6 (henceforth,WN) verb classes (Fellbaum, 1998).
			The se mantic roles of the predicates are linked to the selectional restrictions (categories in WordNetontology for nouns) and the grammatical relations that realize them.
			The selectional restric tions of the predicates are solidly grounded on the WordNet ontology for nouns (Miller, 1998), whose upper level ontology has been modified and rearranged (Gomez, 2004) based on thefeedback obtained by testing the predicate def initions.However, we have found out that the ini tial idea in that work of defining predicates for a WN verb class which will be also valid for most of the verbs under that class has proven to be too optimistic because many of the verb forms included under that class realize theirsemantic roles by different selectional restric tions and grammatical relations.
			This is due to the fact that many of the verbs under a given class have been grouped in many instances bysome kind of implication, or troponymy (Fellbaum, 1998), rather that by sharing seman tic roles in a hierarchy of predicates.
			Even in many cases, some of the verbs in the same synset list differ semantically and syntactically between them.
			For instance, the third sense of &amp;quot;gain&amp;quot; in WN is: &amp;quot;profit, gain, benefit (derive benefit from).&amp;quot; The theme, the thing obtained, is syntactically realized by the PP [from NP]for two of the verbs listed in that synset &amp;quot;bene fit&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;profit,&amp;quot; while the theme for &amp;quot;gain&amp;quot; is realized by a direct object.
			The differences in grammatical relations are even more prevailing within the verbs under one given class.
			But, in those cases in which the verb polysemy is not high, one predicate definition for the verbclass may apply to many of the verb forms un der that class.
			Notwithstanding these problems, WN verb classes have provided an important basis for the construction of a general ontology of predicates that will cover every English verb.
			Moreover, if one considers that there are 5752 verbs in WordNet 1.6 having only one sense and2199 verbs having exactly two senses, the pred icates that have been constructed for the verb classes of 7,951 verbs are very close to be done.
			However, the method explained in this paper deviates considerably from the WN approach to constructing verb meaning.
			In particular, iteschews the synset list in favor of predicate def initions for individual verbs as opposed to a listof synonymous verbs, and allows for an easy in tegration of a new predicate into a list of already defined predicates for a given verb.
			Briefly, the algorithm (Gomez, 2001) that tests the predicates is as follows.
			For every verb in a sentence, we provide a list of predicates for that verb.
			These predicates can be viewed as contenders for the meaning of the verb.
			The goals of the algorithm are to select one predicate from that list, thus determining the sense of the verb, identify its semantic roles, and adjuncts and attach post-verbal PPs.
			All these tasks aresimultaneously achieved.
			For each grammati cal relation (CR) in the clause (starting with the NP complements) and for every predicate in the list of predicates, the algorithm checks if the predicate explains the CR.
			A predicate explainsa CR if there is a semantic role in the predi cate realized by the grammatical relation and the selectional restrictions of the semantic role subsume the ontological category of the head noun of the grammatical relation.
			This process is repeated for each CR in the clause and each predicate in the list of predicates for the verb of the clause.
			Then, the predicate that explains the most CRs is selected as the meaning of the verb.
			The semantic roles of the predicate have been identified as a result of this process.
			In case of ties, the predicate that has the greatest number of semantic roles realized is selected.
			Every grammatical relation that has not been mapped to a semantic role must be an adjunct or an NP modifier.
			The entries for adjuncts are stored in the root node action or description (for stative verbs) and are inherited by all predicates in those categories.
			Adjuncts are identified after the predicate of the verb has been determined because adjuncts are not part of the argument structure of the predicate.In the next section, we will show how to de fine predicates for individual verbs as different from WN verb classes, how these predicates for individual verbs can reuse entries in the generic predicates for WordNet verb classes, and howthey are integrated into the ontology of pred icates that have been defined with the help ofWN verb classes.
			Section 3 provides a discus sion of the semiautomatic construction of thepredicates.
			Section 4 gives a view of the upper level ontology of predicates, section 5 discusses the testing, and sections 6 and 7 related research and conclusions, respectively.
	
	
			VerbsThe approach to defining predicates for indi vidual verbs is similar to the way in which the senses for a verb are given in a dictionary.
			The difference lies in the level of detail provided.
			Foreach verb sense, one must provide: a) a predi cate and a hierarchy where to insert it, b) thesemantic roles for the predicate, and c) the se lectional restrictions and grammatical relations for each role.
			Of course, in the construction ofthe definitions one must keep in mind the in terpretation algorithm because the definitions must determine verb meaning, semantic roles and adjuncts.
			Except for that, our approach is similar to a dictionary definition in the sense that the predicates for that verb are listed in the same way as the senses of a verb are listed in thedictionary.
			The lexical definition of the pred icates is a frame-like representation containingthe selectional restrictions followed by the grammatical relations for that role given those selec tional restrictions.
			The syntax for a semantic role is: (role ( (&lt;slr&gt;) (&lt;grs&gt;) (&lt;slr&gt;) (&lt;grs&gt;) (&lt;slr&gt; (&lt;grs&gt;))))Where &lt; sir &gt; stands for any number of se lectional restrictions, and &amp;quot;&lt; grs &gt;&amp;quot; for any number of grammatical relations.
			The order inwhich the grammatical relations are listed is ir relevant.
			However, the order of the selectional restrictions is relevant in the sense that the first selectional restriction that matches is selected and the others in the list are not tried.
			Hence, the list of selectional restrictions is a preferencelist (Wilks, 1975).
			This preference list is criti cal in selecting the correct sense for many headnouns in the noun phrases of the verb argu ments.
			A selectional restriction preceded by the sign&amp;quot;-&amp;quot; (-sir) means that the semantic role is not realized by that ontological category.
			The gram matical relations for PPs are represented by writing &amp;quot;prep&amp;quot; followed by the prepositions that realize the semantic role, e.g.
			(prep about on ...).
			Some of the grammatical relations are: subj (the sentence has a subject), subj-if-obj(the sentence has a subject and a direct object), obj (direct object), obj2 (second postverbal NP), cp (any complement clause), cpinf (an infinitival complement clause), cp-that clause (a complement clause introduced by athat clause), cping (a complement clause in troduced by gerund), prep-cp (a complement clause introduced by a preposition), etc. Suppose that one wants to define predicates for the verb &amp;quot;gain.&amp;quot; The first three predicates are: (gain [gain-weight ;gain9 in WN (is-a(c-change-state-of-animate)) (agent (human animal)(subj-if-obj)) (theme (we ight _unit 1 ) (obj ) )] [gain-reach-a-location;gain4 in WN (is-a(reach-a-location)) (to-lc(location) (obj))] [gain-possession;gain8in WN (is-a(transfer-of-possession)) (theme(possession)(obj)) (from-poss(human-agent)((prep from))) (source-t(-human-agent thing) ((prep from))(prep-cp by from)))] We have included the WN verb senses following the predicate, but they can be omitted.
			Thereason for putting them is to produce an out put that can be checked against WN verb senses (see Section 5).
			We could have also included the sense numbers of Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English (Longman Group, UK Limited), one of the dictionaries that we have consulted in constructing the predicates.
			Thefirst predicate gain-weight is a subpredicate of cchange-state-of-animate, cause-change-of-stateof-animate-being, which has been already de fined for a class of WN verbs.
			In fact, one does not need to indicate the agent role because it is already indicated in its parent predicate.
			The only roles that one needs to list are thosethat differ from those in its immediate super predicate.
			The predicate gain-reach-a-location is a subpredicate of reach-a-location, which has been already defined in principle for all WN verb forms that fall under the synsets &amp;quot;reachl&amp;quot;and &amp;quot;scale4.&amp;quot; The to-/c role, which is identi cal to the parent predicate, does not need to be listed either.
			Hence, all the work already done in defining predicates for WN classes can be reused in defining predicates for individual verbs which, because of their high degree of polysemy, cannot be handled by the predicates defined for WN verb classes.
			The predicate gain-possession expresses the sense of the verb when the things gained are money, assets, etc. When the source of the things transferred are humans or social groups (&amp;quot;human-agent&amp;quot; stands for humans or social groups) the semantic role is called from-poss, e.g. &amp;quot;She gained much money from the firm.&amp;quot; The role source-t is used when the source is not a human-agent, e.g, &amp;quot;He gained much money from the mines or from/by selling the estate.&amp;quot; The preposition that realizes thisrole is &amp;quot;from.&amp;quot; The prep-cp stands for a com plement clause introduced by a preposition(s).In this case, the prepositions &amp;quot;from&amp;quot; (from sell ing) and &amp;quot;by&amp;quot; (by selling).
			The -human-agent in the source-t indicates that this role is notrealized by the ontological category of human agent.
			The next two: [gain-something;gainl,gain2,gain3 in WN (is-a(transfer-of-something)) (theme (thing) (obj)) (from-poss(human-agent)((prep from))) (source-t(-human-agent thing) ((prep from)) (prep-cp by from)))] [gain-increase;gain6,gain7 in WN ( is-a ( increase) ) (agent (nil) (nil) ) (theme (substance magnitude process action thing) (obj)) (belonging-to: theme (-human-agent -animal thing) (subj-if-obj))]The predicate gain-something is the most gen eral, because the selectional restriction of its theme, thing, is the most general concept inthe ontology.
			This predicate will be also se lected by the algorithm as the second choice for the verb &amp;quot;gain&amp;quot; in &amp;quot;She gained much money from the lottery.&amp;quot; The first predicate will begain-possession and the second predicate gainsomething.
			If one does not want this to hap pen and limit the choices just to one predicate, namely gain-possession, for this sentence, oneneeds to rewrite the entry for the theme of gain something as: (theme (-possession thing) (obj)).
			This will exclude the things that have possession as a hypernym, or superconcept.
			The predicate gain-something is a default predicate for &amp;quot;gain.&amp;quot; That predicate contains implicitlymany predicates that are unanalyzed, in partic ular those whose theme is a nominal, e.g., &amp;quot;gaincontrol/independence/success, etc.&amp;quot; The meaning of these predicates can be inferred, or gen erated from the meaning of the nominal.
			The predicate gain-increase is a subpredicate of increase.
			The entry &amp;quot;(agent(nil)(nil))&amp;quot; means that this predicate does not have an agent, soit will not inherit this role from any superpred icate.
			The meaning of this predicate expresses those propositions in which entities other than humans or animals gain something.
			The role belonging-to:theme means that the filler of this role is in the relationship of belonging-to to thefiller of the role theme.
			The relation belonging to is a very general relationship including manyother relations such as at-lc, attribute, and oth ers.
			This role is also shared by other predicates.
			Thus, the analysis of the sentence &amp;quot;the pond gained water&amp;quot; is something caused the waterbelonging-to the pond to increase.
			In this sen tence, the belonging-to relation stands for at-lc, something that can be inferred by additional analysis of the ontology of the arguments of the relation.
			A similar analysis is produced for &amp;quot;the object gained speed uniformly.&amp;quot; Both sentences can be rephrased by saying &amp;quot;the water in the pond increased,&amp;quot; and &amp;quot;the speed of the object increased.&amp;quot; Order of the Predicates As indicated, the order of the predicates is relevant in the sense that, in case of ties (two or more predicates realize all their semantic roles), they will be preferred as the predicate for that verb in the order in which they are defined.
			This order has nothing to do with frequency of senses for a given verb, but rather with thegenerality of the ontological categories in the se lectional restrictions of the semantic roles.
			Forinstance, had the predicate gain-weight been de fined after gain-something, gain-weight would have been ranked second after gain-something as the predicate of &amp;quot;gain&amp;quot; in the sentence &amp;quot;Theteacher gained weight.&amp;quot; If the ontological cat egory of the selectional restriction of at least one role, says, r1, in predicate, say, pi, is not in the same path as the selectional restriction ofrole r1 in predicate pi, then it makes no differ ence in which order the predicates are defined.That is the case for gain-weight and gain-reach a-location, because the ontological categories of their themes are not in the same path.
			The definition of the predicates is provided without any knowledge about what could be the meaning of the nouns in the sentence.
			The goal is that the definition of the predicates help determine the senses of the nouns as much aspossible.
			For instance, if one types the sen tence &amp;quot;the kite flew into the sky,&amp;quot; the system selects two predicates for &amp;quot;fly&amp;quot;: the first one: fly which is a subpredicate of change-location, (an animate being changes location from a place to another).
			This is so because one of the senses of &amp;quot;kite&amp;quot; in WN is a hawk(kite2).
			Thus, kite2is selected as the agent of fly.
			The second predicate is cause-to-fly (a subpredicate of cause to-change-location), in which &amp;quot;kite&amp;quot; is taken as plaything, a toy, (kitel).
			In this case, &amp;quot;kitel&amp;quot; is the theme and the agent or inanimate-causeare unknown.
			During one of our demos, some body typed the sentence &amp;quot;She left the keys inher car,&amp;quot; and the system came up with the fol lowing two predicates for &amp;quot;left&amp;quot;: leave-a-place and leave-behind.
			Our first reaction was that something had gone very wrong in selecting the predicate leave-a-place.
			But upon looking into it, we found out that one of the senses for &amp;quot;keys&amp;quot; in WN is the &amp;quot;Florida keys,&amp;quot; a location.
			Hence, the interpretation of the system for &amp;quot;left&amp;quot; wascorrect, given that sense for &amp;quot;keys,&amp;quot;: &amp;quot;some body left a place (the Keys) using her car as the instrument for the change of location.
	
	
			Semiautomatic Definition of Predicates We have developed a software environment thathas the following components: a parser, the se mantic interpreter that uses the predicates to interpret the sentence, a corpus (The World Book Encyclopedia, World Book, Inc. Chicago)divided into different sections for defining, re fining and testing the predicate definitions, askimmer that searches for sentences in the cor pus containing the verb for which predicates are being defined, and a mechanism for dragging in sentences from the corpus into the systemfor testing.
			An interface has been also imple mented for those who abhor Lisp parentheses.
			The interface interactively asks for the semanticroles, the selectional restrictions and the gram matical relations for a given predicate.
			Suppose that one wants to define predicates for the threesenses of the verb &amp;quot;confuse&amp;quot; provided by Long man, namely &amp;quot;to cause to be mixed up in the mind,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;to mix up in one&apos;s mind (with)&amp;quot; and&amp;quot;to put in disorder, make less clear or more dif ficult to deal with ..&amp;quot; p1: [cause-to-confuse-perplex (is-a(c-change-state-of-animate)) (agent (human-agentanimal) (subj-if-obj)) (theme(human-agent animal)(obj)) (inanimate-cause (thing) (subj-if-obj)1] [confuse-something-with-something (is-a (misunderstand) ) (agent (human-agent animal) ( subj -if -obj ) ) (theme (thing) (obj ) ) (co-theme (thing) ( (prep with) ) ) (require (co-theme) )] P3: [confuse-issue-muddy (is-a (obscure-ideas-information) ) (agent (human-agent animal) (subj -if -obj ) ) (theme (-physical-thing communication thing) (obj ) )] The first predicate is straightforward.
			The inanimate-cause is needed because anything in principle can cause to confuse a living thing, e.g., &amp;quot;The light confused the bird and was trapped,&amp;quot; or &amp;quot;These questions confuse even theexperts.&amp;quot; The second predicate has no restric tions in the roles theme and co-theme.
			Anything can in principle be confused with anything else.
			The require slot can be used in any predicate to indicate that in order for that predicate to be selected by the algorithm as the meaning of the verb, the role expressed in the require slot must have been filled by the algorithm.
			This isnot absolutely needed in this case, but it min imizes the number of predicates selected for a verb.
			Note that, if one removes the require slotfrom p2, and one types the sentence &amp;quot;He con fused the teacher,&amp;quot; predicates p1 and p2 will be selected because both predicates will explain the two grammatical relations in the sentence.
			However, if one types &amp;quot;She confused the crane with a heron,&amp;quot; only p2 will be selected because p2 will explain the PP [with a heron] and p1 will not be able to.
			The selectional restriction of the theme for predicate p3 is anything that is not a physical-thing in the ontology, preferring those concepts having communication as a hypernym.There are two ways in which one can pro ceed in the definition of these predicates.
			Oneway is to provide the definitions given above us ing the interface, which reduces to responding to some commands/questions by the interface,namely &amp;quot;enter role,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;enter selectional restric tions,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;enter grammatical relations for that role,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;done with this role ?&amp;quot; etc. Then, once the definitions are completed one can skim a section of the corpus for sentences containing the verb for which predicates are being defined and try them (parse and interpret them) in the system in order to test the definitions provided.
			Most sentences are parsed and interpreted in few seconds.Another way is to skim the corpus for sen tences containing the verb for which predicates are being defined, provide tentative definitionsbased on the sentences retrived by the skim mer, and then refine and test the definitions by searching the section of the corpus for refining predicates, and loop as needed.
			The interfaceprovides with all kinds of functions for search ing the noun ontology, which facilitates greatly the task of defining the predicates.
			The placing of a predicate in the hierarchy ofpredicates is a semiautomatic process.
			The interface has a function that displays all the pred icates already built for all the WN senses for agiven verb.
			There are also functions that dis play the content of the predicates as well as all their superpredicates and subpredicates.
			This makes the insertion a rather simple task.
			Adding a New PredicateSuppose that one wants to add a new predi cate to a list of predicates for a given verb whichone thought it was complete.
			One may dis cover a new sense that WN or the dictionary has missed, something not uncommon.
			Thisis as simple as adding the new predicate def inition to the list of predicates for that verb.
			Suppose that one wants to add the predicate gain-a-reputation to the list of predicates forthe verb &amp;quot;gain,&amp;quot; because the verb &amp;quot;gain&amp;quot; is fre quently used with this concept.
			This predicateis clearly a refinement of the predicate gainsomething.
			Hence it needs to be inserted be fore it.
			Prior to introducing the new predicate one may want to check if there is a predicate whose theme contains the selectional restriction of &amp;quot;reputation,&amp;quot; or one of its hypernyms.
			This is a task fully automated.
			One needs only to type: (find-predicates (theme reputation1)).
			This willretrieve all predicates whose theme has reputa tionl, or one of its hypernyms as its selectionalrestriction.
			In this case, the predicate establisha-reputation that has standing1 as the selec tional restriction for the theme will be retrieved.So, one needs only to insert the predicate gain a-reputation immediately before gain-something as follows: (gain-a-reputation (is-a(establish-a-reputation)))
	
	
			Ontology of Predicates We have defined 3,017 predicates.
			Some of them are very complex, while others contain just two or three semantic roles because other roles are inherited from their superpredicates.The major classes and some of their sub classes are briefly described.
			The first classis cause-change-of-state with 609 subpredi cates.
			This class contains major subclasses withvery little relation to each other.
			Some major subclasses (the number of predicates under each class are given in parentheses following the class) are cause-change- of- state- of animate-being (140 subpredicates) which in turn has subclasses such as arouse- f eeling s- emotions(52) cause-to-act (19), injure-hurt-somebody-oroneself (18).
			Other major subclasses of cause change-of-state are: increase (31), improve (19),worsen (10), terminate (16), physical-change-ofstate (14) (e.g., solidify, liquefy, etc.) causechange-of-integrity (22), transform (9) and oth ers.The next predicate class is cause-tochange-location with 379 predicates.
			The pri mary event expressed by this predicate is a cause of change of location of something other than the agent; although the agent may have also changed location.
			In &amp;quot;Linda carried the books to the library &amp;quot; the agent also has been moved, but the primary event is the fact that Linda caused a change of location of the books.
			In a sentence such as &amp;quot;The moon circles the earth,&amp;quot; &amp;quot;the moon&amp;quot; is the theme and the agent or inanimate-cause is unknown.
			The predicate cause-to-change-location is not to be confused with change-location (see next class) in which the agent and the theme are the same animatebeing, e.g., &amp;quot;Kelly went to the store.&amp;quot; The ma jor subclasses of cause-to-change-locationare: put (75), remove (53), transport (23), pro pel (20), connect (22), flow (12), and pull, push and send with 9 predicates each.
			The next class is change-location with 238 predicates.
			Major subclasses are: walk (14) (some subpredicates of walk are hike, march,sneak-walk, and others), enter (10), leave-aplace (11), travel, arrive-to-a-place (10) and oth ers.The next class is interact with 372 predi cates.
			Whithin this class, the major subclassesare: communicate (243), treat-an-animal-or human (26), whose mayor subpredicates aretreat-unjustly-somebody, and behave (9), join-a group-or-a-human (9) and others.
			The next class is transfer-of-somethingwith 293.
			Its major class is transfer-of possession (231), which in turn contains such subpredicates as give (31), get (132) and others.
			The next class is make-or-create-something with 144 predicates.
			Some major subclassesare initiate-something (30), create-art (28), produce (10), prepare-something (10) and oth ers.
			Another major class is judge with 182 predicates.
			Some of its subpredicates arepass-a-negative-judgment-on (36) (e.g., disapprove, oppose-ideas, oppose-people, and oth ers.), put-value-to-something (12), praise (7), accept-admit-a-fact (30), confirm-corroborate (11), deny-something-to-somebody (14), accuse(11) and others.
			The next class is experience with 110 predicates.
			Some of its sub classes are: feel-in-a-state-or-emotions (25),perceive (21), like-something (36), experience event-state-abstraction (11) and others.
			The next class is think with 115 predicates.
			Some of its major subclasses are analyze (31), plan (13), reason-conclude (9), associate (7) and others.The next class is decide with 92 predi cates.
			Its major subclass is exert-control-over (65), which in turn contains major subclassessuch as restrain(22) and manage (23).
			Another class is touch with 55 predicates.
			Its major subclasses are handle-operate (18) and hit something (24).
			Another major class with 52predicates is spend-something, which has in gest (31) as one of its main subclasses.
			Some other predicate classes are: prevent (45), move-body-position (33), know (31),fail-to-do-something (33), fight (31), expel substance-from-the-body (23), do-act (27), appoint-somebody (15), allow-something (21), support-something (24), succeed (23), and utilize (11).
			To these we need to add 223predicates for stative verb senses (e.g. beat-a place, include, etc.)
	
	
			We have tested the predicates in 500 sentencestaken from the The World Book Encyclopedia.
			The manually corrected output of the se mantic interpreter on these 500 sentences has been made public on November 26, 03 on the Table 1: Statistics for the Sentences Predicate for the Verb 87% Semantic Roles: 91% Adjuncts: 82% Post Verbal PP attachment: 89% authors&apos; homepage (www.cs.ucf.edu/ gomez).
			These sentences and their subclauses contain close to 400 distinct verbs.
			Many of these verbs appear in the 500 sentence corpus several times with different senses, while others appear just one or two times.
			Space limitations prevent us from listing the verbs in this paper.
			Table 1summarizes the results of the semantic inter preter on these 500 sentences.
			We counted as a correct predicate for the verb only the first predicate selected by the algorithm.
			Semantic roles were computed only for those predicates which were correctly selected by the algorithm.
			As one can see, the results are very good, and, as a consequence, the manual correction of the errors in the sentences takes very little time.
			In fact, we have made public another set of 500 sentences on March 24, 2004.
			This new set of sentences tests many verbs that did not appear in the initial corpus, and which exhibit many different senses.
			The preliminary results on this new set are comparable to the results for the first set.
			The selectional restrictions are aimed at capturing the possible noun categories for a given predicate, and are not biased to any corpus.
			The main reasons for failing to assign meaning to a constituent are: over-specificationor over-generalization of the selectional restric tions, missing a grammatical relation, sense not contemplated in the predicate definitions for that verb, and insufficient information in thesentence to unequivocally determine the predi cate of the verb.
			The semantic interpreter has become an excellent tool to automatically build a corpus of annotated predicates, semantic roles and adjuncts, requiring very little human effort in validating and correcting the final output.
			Our additions and restructuring to the upperlevel noun ontology together with the preference list in the selectional restrictions is mak ing possible for the interpreter to resolve manynoun senses, which otherwise would have remained unresolved.
			Figure 1 depicts the out put of the interpreter for one of the sentence in the initial corpus.
			The interpretation of the sentences in the corpus include relativization, (Clause CL364 (SUBJ:((ADJ MANY)(ADJ WHITE)(NOUN TRADERS)) (MERCHANT1 TRADER1) &lt;(AGENT)&gt; ) (ADVERB: ((ADVERB LATER)) LATER ) (VERB: OPENED &lt;OPEN-AN-ENTERPRISE:(OPEN2) supported by 2 SRs&gt; ) (OBJ: ((NOUN POSTS)) (POSITION6 POST3) &lt;(THEME)&gt;) (PREP : ON (PREP-NP: ((PN INDIAN) (NOUN RESERVATIONS)) (RESERVATION1 INDIAN_RESERVATION1) &lt;(AT-LOC)&gt;) Attach: Verb Confidence: WEAK) ) AND (Clause CL360 (SUBJ: ((ADJ MANY) (ADJ WHITE) (NOUN TRADERS)) (MERCHANT1 TRADER1) &lt;(AGENT)&gt; ) (ADVERB: ((ADVERB LATER)) LATER ) (VERB: CHARGED &lt;CHARGE-BILL:(CHARGE3) supported by 2 SRs&gt;) (OBJ : ((ADJ UNFAIR) (NOUN PRICES)) (POSSESSION PRICE1 PRICE6) &lt;(THEME)&gt; ) ) Figure 1: Interpreter output for Many whitetraders later opened posts on Indian reserva tions and charged unfair pricescomplement phrases, coordination, subordina tion and adverbial clauses.
			The grammatical relation is listed first followed by the semantic role for that grammatical relation in the form &lt; (semantic — role) &gt;.
			Hence, the pair &lt;&gt; (placed to the right of the grammatical relation) identifies semantic roles.
			The program prints the predicate followed by the WN verb senses and the phrase &amp;quot;supported by &apos;a-number&apos; SRs,&amp;quot;(where &apos;a-number&apos; stands for a cardinal number), which indicates the number of grammatical relations (SRs) that have realized seman tic roles.
			If the output for that sentence has more semantic roles than the number listed in the phrase &amp;quot;supported by,&amp;quot; those semantic roles are adjuncts.
			Prepositions can be attached to the verb with a confidence of strong or weak.
			All post-verbal PPs deemed to be arguments of the verb are attached as strong, while all PPs that are deemed adjuncts can be attached as strong or weak.
			The WN sense number for the verb is printed in parentheses immediately following the predicate.
			Sometimes more than one WN verb sense is given for a predicate.
			For instance, for the predicate travel-change-location given for the verb &amp;quot;travel&amp;quot; in the sentence &amp;quot;She traveled to Spain,&amp;quot; the following WN senses of &amp;quot;travel&amp;quot; are listed (travell travel4 travel5).
			This meansthat all WN senses of &amp;quot;travel&amp;quot; in that list are co alesced into the predicate travel-change-location (Gomez, 2001).
			Hence, all these WN senses of the verb have the same meaning.
			The WN noun senses follow the noun in parentheses.
			In some instances, the algorithm may provide more than one sense for a noun.
			To the contrary to verb senses, this list is a ranked list in which the first noun sense listed by the algorithm is the preferred one.
			Besides this output, the system lists all the superpredicates of the predicates selected for the verbs in the sentence.
			Thus,open- an- enterprise is-a initiate- an- enterpriseproject is-a organize is-a initiate-something isa give-rise-to-something is-a make-or-createsomething, and charge-bill is-a transfer-ofpossession is-a transfer-of-something is-a ac tion.
	
	
			This work has benefited from several sources.In linguistics, the work reported in (Pritch ett, 1992; Grimshaw, 1990; Pinker, 1989) have been influential.
			In computational linguistics, the VerbNet project (Dang et al., 1998) and Framenet (www.icsi.berkeley.edu/ framen,a) (Fillmore et al., 2003) bear relation to this work.
			Major differences are that our project aims at defining predicates for every English verb in asystematic manner, linking the selectional restrictions for their semantic roles to a well es tablished and widely used ontology for nouns,namely WordNet, and placing them in a hierar chy of predicates where inferences and semantic roles can be inherited.
			Moreover, the definition of our predicates can be tested by running thesemantic interpretation algorithm on any cor pus or on sentences typed by the user at the console.
	
	
			An approach to building verb predicates hasbeen presented.
			The construction of the predicates is essentially linked to an algorithm for de termining the semantic roles of the predicates.The definitions of the predicates are done semi automatically and are being refined and testedwith the help of a semantic interpretation algo rithm that uses the definitions for determining verb meaning and semantic roles for sentencesselected from a corpus, or entered at the ter minal.
			The algorithm and the predicates are being used to automatically construct a corpus of semantic annotated sentences.
	
