
	
		Our group participated in the Basque and English lexical sample tasks in Senseval3.
		A language-speci.c feature set was de.ned for Basque.
		Four di.erent learning algorithms were applied, and also a method that combined their outputs.
		Before submission, the performance of the methods was tested for each task on the Senseval3 training data using cross validation.
		Finally, two systems were submitted for each language: the best single algorithm and the best ensemble.
	
	
			Our group (BCU, Basque Country University), participated in the Basque and English lexical sample tasks in Senseval3.
			We applied 4 di.erent learning algorithms (Decision Lists, Naive Bayes, Vector Space Model, and Support Vector Machines), and also a method that combined their outputs.
			These algorithms were previously tested and tuned on the Senseval2 data for English.
			Before submission, the performance of the methods was tested for each task on the Senseval3 training data using 10 fold cross validation.
			Finally, two systems were submitted for each language, the best single algorithm and the best ensemble in cross-validation.
			The main di.erence between the Basque and English systems was the feature set.
			A rich set of features was used for English, including syntactic dependencies and domain information, extracted with di.erent tools, and also from external resources like WordNet Domains (Magnini and Cavaglia, 2000).
			The features for Basque were di.erent, as Basque is an agglutinative language, and syntactic information is given by in.ectional su.xes.
			We tried to represent this information in local features, relying on the analysis of a deep morphological analyzer developed in our group (Aduriz et al., 2000).
			In order to improve the performance of the algorithms, di.erent smoothing techniques were David Martinez IXA NLP Group Basque Country University Donostia, Spain davidm@si.ehu.es tested on the English Senseval2 lexical sample data (Agirre and Martinez, 2004), and applied to Senseval3.
			These methods helped to obtain better estimations for the features, and to avoid the problem of 0 counts Decision Lists and Naive Bayes.
			This paper is organized as follows.
			The learning algorithms are .rst introduced in Section 2, and Section 3 describes the features applied to each task.
			In Section 4, we present the experiments performed on training data before submission; this section also covers the .nal con.guration of each algorithm, and the performance obtained on training data.
			Finally, the o.cial results in Senseval3 are presented and discussed in Section 5.
	
	
			The algorithms presented in this section rely on features extracted from the context of the target word to make their decisions.
			The Decision List (DL) algorithm is described in (Yarowsky, 1995b).
			In this algorithm the sense with the highest weighted feature is selected, as shown below.
			We can avoid undetermined values by discarding features that have a 0 probability in the divisor.
			More sophisticated smoothing techniques have also been tried (cf.
			Section 4).
			Pr(sk|fi) arg max w(sk,fi)= log( .) k =k Pr(sj|fi) j The Naive Bayes (NB) algorithm is based on the conditional probability of each sense given the features in the context.
			It also requires smoothing.
			m arg max P(sk) .i=1 P(fi|sk) k For the Vector Space Model (V) algorithm, we represent each occurrence context as a vector, where each feature will have a 1 or 0 SENSEVAL3: Third International Workshop on the Evaluation of Systems for the Semantic Analysis of Text, Barcelona, Spain, July 2004 Association for Computational Linguistics value to indicate the occurrence/absence of the feature.
			For each sense in training, one centroid vector is obtained.
			These centroids are compared with the vectors that represent testing examples, by means of the cosine similarity function.
			The closest centroid is used to assign its sense to the testing example.
			No smoothing is required to apply this algorithm, but it is possible to use smoothed values.
			Regarding Support Vector Machines (SVM) we utilized SVM-Light (Joachims, 1999), a public distribution of SVM.
			Linear kernels were applied, and the soft margin (C) was estimated per each word (cf.
			Section 4).
			3Features 3.1 Features for English.
			We relied onanextensive setoffeatures of di.erent types, obtained by means of di.erent tools and resources.
			The features used can be grouped in four groups: Local collocations: bigrams and trigrams formed with the words around the target.
			These features are constituted with lemmas, word-forms, or PoS tags1 . Other local features are those formed with the previous/posterior lemma/word-form in the context.
			Syntactic dependencies: syntactic dependencies were extracted using heuristic patterns, and regular expressions de.ned with the PoS tags around the target2 . The following relations were used: object, subject, noun-modi.er, preposition, and sibling.
			Bag-of-words features:we extract the lemmas of the content words in the whole context, and in a 4-word window around the target.
			We also obtain salient bigrams in the context, with the methods and the software described in (Pedersen, 2001).
			Domain features: The WordNet Domains resource was used to identify the most relevant domains in the context.
			Following the relevance formula presented in (Magnini and Cavaglia, 2000), we de.ned 2 feature types: (1) the most relevant domain, and (2) a list of domains above a prede.ned threshold3 . Other experiments using domains from SUMO, the EuroWordNet 1The PoS tagging was performed with the fnTBL toolkit(Ngai andFlorian, 2001).
			2This software was kindly provided by David Yarowskys group, from Johns Hopkins University.
			3 The software to obtain the relevant domains was kindly provided by Gerard Escuderos group, from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya top-ontology, and WordNets Semantic Fields were performed, but these features were discarded from the .nal set.
			3.2 Features for Basque.
			Basque is an agglutinative language, and syntactic information is given by in.ectional suf.xes.
			The morphological analysis of the text is a necessary previous step in order to select informative features.
			The data provided by the task organization includes information about the lemma, declension case, and PoS for the participating systems.
			Our group used directly the output of the parser (Aduriz et al., 2000), which includes some additional features: number, determiner mark, ambiguous analyses and elliptic words.
			For a few examples, the morphological analysis was not available, due to parsing errors.
			In Basque, the determiner, the number and the declension case are appended to the last element of the phrase.
			When de.ning our feature set for Basque, we tried to introduce the same knowledge that is represented by features that work well for English.
			We will describe our feature set with an example: for the phrase elizaren arduradunei (which means to the directors of the church) we get the following analysis from our analyzer: eliza |-ren |arduradun |-ei church |of the |director |to the +pl. The order of the words is the inverse in English.
			We extract the following information for each word: elizaren: Lemma: eliza (church) PoS: noun Declension Case: genitive (of) Number: singular Determiner mark: yes arduradunei: Lemma: arduradun (director) PoS: noun Declension Case: dative (to) Number: plural Determiner mark: yes We will assume that eliza (church) is the target word.
			Words and lemmas are shown in lowercase and the other information in uppercase.
			As local features we de.ned di.erent types of unigrams, bigrams, trigrams and a window of 4 words.
			The unigrams were constructed combining word forms, lemmas, case, number, and determiner mark.
			We de.ned 4 kinds of unigrams: Uni wf0 elizaren Uni wf1 eliza SING+DET Uni wf2 eliza GENITIVE Uni wf3 eliza SING+DET GENITIVE As for English, we de.ned bigrams based on word forms, lemmas and parts-of-speech.
			But in order to simulate the bigrams and trigrams used for English, we de.ned di.erent kinds of features.
			For word forms, we distinguished two cases: using the text string (Big wf0), or using the tags from the analysis (Big wf1).
			The word form bigrams for the example are shown below.
			In thecase of the featuretypeBig wf1, the information is split in three features: Big wf0 elizaren arduradunei Big wf1 eliza GENITIVE Big wf1 GENITIVE arduradun PLUR+DET Big wf1 arduradun PLUR+DET DATIVE Similarly, depending on the use of the declension case, we de.ned three kinds of bigrams basedonlemmas: Big lem0 eliza arduradun Big lem1 eliza GENITIVE Big lem1 GENITIVE arduradun Big lem1 arduradun DATIVE Big lem2 eliza GENITIVE Big lem2 arduradun DATIVE The bigrams constructed using Part-ofspeech are illustrated below.
			We included the declension case as if it was another PoS: Big pos1 NOUN GENITIVE Big pos1 GENITIVE NOUN Big pos1 NOUN DATIVE Trigrams are built similarly, by combining the information from three consecutive words.
			We also used as local features all the content words in a window of 4 words around the target.
			Finally, as global features we took all the content lemmas appearing in the context, which was constituted by the target sentence and the two previous and posterior sentences.
			One di.cult case to model in Basque is the ellipsis.
			For example, the word elizakoa means the one from the church.
			We were able to extract this information from our analyzer and we represented it in the features, using a special symbol in place of the elliptic word.
			4 Experiments on training data.
			The algorithms that we applied were .rst tested on the Senseval2 lexical sample task for English.
			The best versions were then evaluated by 10 fold cross-validation on the Senseval3 data, both for Basque and English.
			We also used the training data in cross-validation to tune the parameters, such as the smoothed frequencies, or the soft margin for SVM.
			In this section we will describe .rst the parameters of each method (including the smoothing procedure), and then the cross-validation results on the Senseval3 training data.
			4.1 Methods and Parameters.
			DL: On Senseval2 data, we observed that DL improved signi.cantly its performance with a smoothing technique based on (Yarowsky, 1995a).
			For our implementation, the smoothed probabilities were obtained by grouping the observations by raw frequencies and feature types.
			As this method seems sensitive to the feature types and the amount of examples, we tested 3 DL versions: DL smooth (using smoothed probabilities), DL .xed (replacing 0 counts with 0.1), and DL discard (discarding features appearing with only one sense).
			NB: We applied a simple smoothing method presented in (Ng, 1997), where zero counts are replaced by the probability of the given sense divided by the number of examples.
			V: The same smoothing method used for NB was applied for vectors.
			For Basque, two versions were tested: as the Basque parser can return ambiguous analyses, partial weights are assigned to the features in the context, and we can chose to use these partial weights (p), or assign the full weight to all features (f).
			SVM: No smoothing was applied.
			We estimated the soft margin using a greedy process in cross-validation on the training data per each word.
			Combination: Single voting was used, where each system voted for its best ranked sense, and the most voted sense was chosen.
			More sophisticate schemes like ranked voting, were tried on Senseval2 data, but the results did not improve.
			We tested combinations of the 4 algorithms, leaving one out, and the two best.
			The best results were obtained combining 3 methods (leave one out).
			Method Recall vector 73,9 SVM 73,5 DL smooth 69,4 NB 69,4 DL .xed 65,6 DL discard 65,4 MFS 57,1 Table 1: Single systems (English) in cross-validation, sorted by recall.
			Combination Recall SVM-vector-DL smooth-NB SVM-vector-DL .xedNB SVM-vector-DL smooth SVM-vector-DL .xed SVM-vector-NB SVMDL smooth-NB SVMDL .xedNB SVM-vector 73,2 72,7 74,0 73,8 73,6 72,4 71,3 73,1 Table 2: Combined systems (English) in cross-validation, best recall in bold.
			Method Recall SVM 71,1 NB 68,5 vector(f) 66,8 DL smooth 65,9 DL .xed 65,2 vector(p) 65,0 DL discard 60,7 MFS 53,0 Table 3: Single systems (Basque) in cross-validation, sorted by recall.
			Combination Recall SVM-vector-DL smooth-NB SVM-vector-DL .xedNB SVM-vector-DL smooth SVM-vector-DL .xed SVM-vector-NB SVMDL smooth-NB SVMDL .xedNB SVM-vector SVMNB 70,6 71,1 70,6 70,8 71,1 70,2 70,5 69,0 69,8 Table 4: Combined systems (Basque) in cross-validation, best recall in bold.
			Only vector(f) was used for combination.
			4.2 Results on English Training Data.
			The results using cross-validation on the Senseval3 data are shown in Table 1 for single systems, and in Table 2 for combined methods.
			All the algorithms have full-coverage (for English and Basque), therefore the recall and the precision are the same.
			The most frequent sense (MFS) baseline is also provided, and it is easily beaten by all the algorithms.
			We have to note that these .gures are consistent with the performance we observed in the Senseval2 data, where the vector method is the best performing single system, and the best combination is SVM-vector-DL smooth.
			There is a small gain when combining 3 systems, which we expected would be higher.
			We submitted the best single system, and the best combination for this task.
			4.3 Results on Basque Training Data.
			The performance on the Senseval3 Basque training data is given in Table 1 for single systems, and in Table 2 for combined methods.
			In this case, the vector method, and DL smooth obtain lower performance in relation to other methods.
			This can be due to the type of features used, which have not been tested as extensively as for English.
			In fact, it could happen that some features contribute mostly noise.
			Also, the domain tag of the examples, which could provide useful information, was not used.
			There is no improvement when combining different systems, and the result of the combination of 4 systems is unusually high in relation to the English experiments.
			We also submitted two systems for this task: the best single method in cross-validation (SVM), and the best 3-method combination (SVM-vector-NB).
			5 Results and Conclusions.
			Table 5 shows the performance obtained by our systems and the winning system in the Senseval3 evaluation.
			We can see that we are very close to the best algorithms in both languages.
			The recall of our systems is 1.2%-1.9% lower than cross-validation for every system and task, which is not surprising when we change the setting.
			The combination of methods is useful for English, where we improve the recall in 0.3%, reaching 72.3%.
			The di.erence is statistically signi.cant according to McNemars test.
			However, the combination of methods does not improve the results in the the Basque task, where the SVM method alone provides better Table 5: O.cial results for the English and Basque lexical tasks (recall).
			Task Code Method Rec.
			Eng.
			Eng.
			Eng.
			Senseval3 Best BCU comb BCUenglish ? SVM-vector-DL smooth vector 72,9 72,3 72,0 Basq.
			Senseval3 Best ? 70,4 Basq.
			BCUbasque SVM 69,9 Basq.
			BCUBasque comb SVM-vector 69,5 NB results (69.9% recall).
			In this case the di.erence is not signi.cant applying McNemars test.
			Our disambiguation procedure shows a similar behavior on the Senseval2 and Senseval3 data for English (both in cross-validation and in the testing part), where the ensemble works best, followed by the vector model.
			This did not apply to the Basque dataset, where some algorithms seem to perform below the expectations.
			For future work, we plan to study better the Basque feature set and include new features, such as domain tags.
			Overall, the ensemble of algorithms provides a more robust system for WSD, and is able to achieve state-of-the-art performance.
			6Acknowledgements We wish to thank both David Yarowskys group, from Johns Hopkins University, and Gerard Escuderos group, from Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya, for providing us software for the acquisition of features.
			This research has been partially funded by the European Commission (MEANING IST2001-34460).
	
