
	
		We present an efficient and robust reference reso­ lution algorithm in an end-to-end state-of-the-art information extraction system, which must work with a considerably impoverished syntactic analy­ sis of the input sentences.
		Considering this disad­ vantage, the basic setup to collect, filter, then order by salience does remarkably well with third-person pronou ns, but needs more semantic and discourse information to improve the treatments of other ex­ pression types.
	
	
			Anaphora resolution is a component technology of an overall discourse understanding system.
			This paper focuses on reference resolution in an infor­ mation extraction system, which performs a par­ tial and selective 'understanding' of unrestricted discourses.
			Reference Resolution in IE An information extraction (IE) system automat­ ically extracts certain predefined target informa­ tion from real-world online texts or speech tran­ scripts.
			The target information, typically of the form "who did what to whom where when," is ex­ tracted from natural language sentences or format­ ted tables, and fills parts of predefined template data structures with slot values.
			Partially filled template data objects about the same entities, en­ tity relationships, and events are then merged to updating and summary generation.
			1 In this IE context, reference resolution takes the form of merging partial data objects about the same entities, entity relationships, and events de­ scribed at different discourse positions.
			Merging in IE is very difficult, accounting for a significant portion of IE errors in the final output.
			This pa­ per focuses on the referential relationships among entities rather than the more complex problem of event merging.
			An IE system recognizes particular target infor­ mation instances, ignoring anything deemed irrel­ evant.
			Reference resolution within IE, however, cannot operate only on those parts that describe target information because anaphoric expressions within target linguistic patterns may have an­ tecedents outside of the target, and those that oc­ cur in an apparently irrelevant pattern may ac­ tually resolve to target entities.
			For this reason, reference resolution in the IE system needs ac­ cess to all of the text rather than some selective parts.
			Furthermore, it is reasonable to assume that a largely domain-independent method of reference resolution can be developed, which need not be tailored anew each time a new target is defined.
			In this paper, I discuss one such entity refer­ ence resolution algorithm for a general geo political business domain developed for SRI's FASTUS™ system (Hobbs et al., 1996) , one of the leading IE systems, which can also be seen as a representative of today's IE technology.
			create a network of related data objects.
			These 1The IE technology has undergone a rapid development template data objects depicting instances of the target information are the raw output of IE, ready for a wide range of applications such as database in the 1990s driven by the series of Message Understand­ ing Conferences (MUCs) in the U.S. government-sponsored TIPSTER program (http://www .t ipster .org).
			46 The Input to Reference Resolution Multiple top-scoring sites working on IE have con­ verged on the use of finite-state linguistic patterns applied in stages of smaller to larger units.
			This finite-state transduction approach to IE, first intro­ duced in SRl's FASTUS, has proven effective for real-world texts because full parsing is far too am­ biguous, slow, and brittle against real-world sen­ tences.
			This means that we cannot assume correct and full syntactic structures in the input to ref­ erence resolution in a typical IE system.
			The in­ put is a set of (often overlapping or discontiguous) finite-state approximations of sentence parts.
			We must approximate fine-grained theoretical propos­ als about referential dependencies, and adapt them to the context of sparse and incomplete syntactic input.
			The input to reference resolution in the the­ oretical literature is assumed to be fully parsed sentences, often with syntactic attributes such as grammatical functions and thematic roles on the constituents (Webber, 1978; Sidner, 1979; Hobbs, 1978; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein, 1995).
			In im­ plemented reference resolution systems, for pro­ noun resolution in particular, there seems to be a trade-off between the completeness of syntac­ tic input and the robustness with real-world sen­ tences.
			In short, more robust and partial parsing gives us wider coverage, but less syntactic infor­ mation also leads to less accUJ1ate reference reso­ lution.
			For instance, Lappin and Leass {1994) re­ port an 86% accuracy for a resolution algorithm for third-person pronouns using fully parsed sen­ tences as input.
			Kennedy and Boguraev {1996) then report a 75% accuracy for an algorithm that approximates Lappin and Leass's with more robust and coarse-grained syntactic input.
			After describ­ ing the algorithm in the next section, I will briefly compare the present approach with these pronoun resolution approaches.
			Algorit hmThis algorithm was first implemented for the MUC 6 FASTUS system (Appelt et al., 1995) , and prod.
			uced one of the top scores (a recall of 59% and precision of 72%) in the MUC6 Coreference Task, which evaluated systems' ability to recog nize coreference among noun phrases (Sund heim, 1995).
			Note that only identity of reference was evaluated there.2 The three main factors in this algorithm are (a) accessible text regions, (b) semantic consistency, and {c) dynamic syntactic preference.
			The algo­ rithm is invoked for each sentence after the earlier finite-state transd uction phases have determined the best sequence(s) of nominal and verbal expres­ sions.
			Crucially, each nominal expression is associ­ ated with a set of template data objects that record various linguistic and textual attributes of the re­ ferring expressions contained in it.
			These data ob­ jects are similar to discourse referents in discourse semantics (Karttunen, 1976; Kamp, 1981; Heim, 1982; Kamp and Reyle, 1993) , in that anaphoric expressions such as she are also associated with corresponding anaphoric entities.
			A pleonastic it has no associated entities.
			Quantificational nomi­ nals such as each company are associated with en­ tity objects because they are 'anaphoric' to group entities accessible in the context.
			In this setup, the effect of reference resolution is merging of multiple entity objects.
			Here is the algorithm.
			1.
			INPUT: Template entities with the.
			following textual, syntactic, and semantic features: {a) determiner type (e.g., DEF, INDEF, PRON) (b) grammatical or numerical number (e.g., SG, PL, 3) (c) head string (e.g., automaker) {d) the head string sort in a sort hierarchy (e.g., automaker-+company-+organiz ation) (e) modifier strings (e.g., newly founded , with the pilots ) {f) text span {the start and end byte positions) (g) sentence and paragraph positions3 {h) text region type (e.g., HEADLINE, TEXT) 20ther referential relationships such as subset and part­ whole did not reach sufficiently reliable interannotator agreements.
			Only identity of reference had a sufficiently high agreement rate (about 85%) between two human annotators.
			3Higher text structure properties such as subsections and sections should also be considered if there are any.
			Exact accessibility computation using complex hierarchical text structures is a future topic of study.
			47
	
	
			in the current sentence, in the left-to-right order, DO (1) COLLECT antecedent entity objects from the accessible text region.
			• For an entity in a HEADLINE text region, the entire TEXT is accessible because the headline summarizes the text.
			• For an entity in a TEXT region, everything preceding its text span is accessible (except for the HEADLINE).
			Intrasentential cataphora is allowed only for first-person pronouns.
			• In addition, a locality assumption on anaphora sets a (soft) window of search for each referring expression type-the entire preceding text for proper names, narrower for definite noun phrases, even narrower for pro­ nouns, and only the current sentence for re­ flexives.
			In the MUC6 system, the window size was arbitrarily set to ten sentences for definites and three sentences for pronou ns, ignoring paragraph boundaries, and no an­ tecedents beyond the limit were considered.
			This clearly left ample room for refinement.4 (2) FILTER with semantic consistency between the anaphoric entity E1 and the potential an­ tecedent entity E2.
			• Number Consistency: E1's number must be consistent with E2's number-for example, twelve is consistent with PLURAL, but not with SINGULAR.
			As a special case, plural pronouns (they, we) can take singular organi­ zation antecedents.
			• Sort Consistency: E1's sort must either EQUAL or SUBSUME E2's sort.
			This reflects a monotonicity assumption on anaphora-for example, since company sub­ sumes automaker, the company can take a Chicago-based automaker as an antecedent, but it is too risky to allow the automaker to take a Chicago-based company as an antecedent.
			On the other hand, since 4 For example, in a more recent FASTUS system, para­ graphs are also considered in setting the limit, and at most one candidate beyond the limit is proposed when no candi­ dates are found within the limit.
			automaker and airline are neither the same sort nor in a subsumption relation, an au­ tomaker and the airline cannot corefer.
			(The system's sort hierarchy is still sparse and in­ complete.)
			• Modifier Consistency: E1's modifiers must be consistent with E2 's modifiers for ex­ ample, French and British are inconsistent, but French and multinational are consistent.
			(The system doesn't have enough knowledge to do this well.)
			(3) ORDER by dynamic syntactic preference.
			The following ordering approximates the relative salience of entities.
			The basic underlying hypothesis is that intrasentential candidates are more salient than intersentential candi­ dates as proposed, for example, in Hobbs (1978) and Kameyama (in press) , and that fine grained syntax-based salience fades with time.
			Since fine-grained syntax with gram­ matical functions is unavailable, the syntactic prominence of subjects and leftdislocation is approximated by the left right linear ordering.
			1.
			the preceding part of the same sentence in the left-right order ii.
			the immediately preceding sentence in the left-right order iii.
			other preceding sentences within the 'limit' (see above) in the right-left order
	
	
			found an ordered set of potential antecedent entities, there are destructive (indefeasible) and nonde­ structive (defeasible) options.
			(a) Destructive Option: MERGE the anaphoric entity into the preferred antecedent entity .
			(b) Nondestructive Option: RECORD the an­ tecedent entity list in the anaphoric entity to allow reordering (i.e., preference revisions) by event merging or overall model selection.
			The MUC6 system took the destructive op­ tion.
			The nondest ructive option has been im­ plemented in a more recent system.
			These basic steps of "COLLECT, FILTER, and ORDER by salience" are analogous to Lappin and 48 Leass's (1994) pronou n resolution algorithm, but each step in FASTUS relies on considerably poorer syntactic input.
			The present algorithm thus pro­ vides an interesting case of what happens with extremely poor syntactic input, even poorer than in Kennedy and Boguraev's (1996) system.
			This comparison will be discussed later.
			Name Alias Recognition In addition to the above general algorithm, a special-purpose alias recognition algorithm is in­ voked for coreference resolution of proper names.5 1.
			INPUT: The input English text is in mixed.
			cases.
			An earlier transd uction phase has rec­ ognized unknown names as well as specific­ type names for persons, locations, or organizat ions using name-internal pattern matching and known name lists.
			2.
			FOR EACH new sentence, FOR EACH unknown.
			name, IF it is an alias or acronym of an­ other name already recognized in the given text, MERGE the two-an alias is a selective sub­ string of the full name (e.g., Colonial for Colo­ nial Beef) , and acronym is a selective sequence of initial characters in the full name (e.g., GM for General Motors).
			Overall Performance The MUC6 FASTUS reference resolution algo­ rithm handled only coreference (i.e., identity of ref­ erence) of proper names, definites, and pronouns.
			These are the 'core' anaphoric expression types whose dependencies tend to be constrained by sur­ face textual factors such as locality.
			The MUC6 Coreference Task evaluation included coreference of bare nominals, possessed nominals, and indefi­ nites as well, which the system did not handle be­ cause we didn't have a reliable algorithm for these mostly 'accidental' coreferences that seemed to re­ quire deeper inferences.
			Nevertheless, the system scored a recall of 59% and precision of 72% in the blind evaluation of thirty newspaper articles.
			5 In addition, a specific-type name may be converted into another type in certain linguistic contexts.
			For instance in a subsidiar y of M rs.
			Field, M rs.
			Field is converted fro a person name into a company name.
			Expression Type Number of Occurrences Correctly Resolved Definites 61 28(46%) Pronouns 39 24(62%) Proper Names 32 22(69%) Reflexives 1 1(100%) TOTAL 133 75(56%) Table 1: Core Discou rse Anaphors in Five Articles Grammatical Person lntra/lnter-S Antecedent Number of Occurrences Correctly Resolved 3rd person intra-S 27 21(78%) 3rd person interS 6 2(33%) that interS 1 0(0%) 1st/2nd person interS 5 1(20%) reflexive intra-S 1 1(100%) Table 2: Pronou ns in Five Articles Table 1 shows the system's performance in re­ solving the core discou rse anaphors in five ran­ domely selected articles from the development set.
			Only five articles were examined here because the process was highly time-consuming.
			The perfor­ mance for each expression type varies widely from article to article because of unexpected features of the articles.
			For instance, one of the five articles is a letter to the editor with a text structure drasti­ cally different from news reports.
			On average, we see that the resolution accuracy (i.e., recall) was the highest for proper names (69%) , followed by pronou ns (62%) and definites (46%).
			There were not enough instances of reflexives to compare.
			Table 2 shows the system's performance for pro­ nouns broken down by two parameters, gram­ matical person and inter- vs. intrasentential antecedent.
			The system did quite well (78%) with third-person pronouns with intrasentential antecedents, the largest class of such pronouns.
			Part of the pronoun resolution performance here enables a preliminary comparison with the results reported in (1) Lappin and Leass (1994) and (2) Kennedy and Boguraev (1996).
			For the third­ person pronouns and reflexives, the performance was (1) 86% of 560 cases in five computer manu­ als and (2) 75% of 306 cases in twenty-seven Web page texts.
			The present FASTUS system correctly 49 resolved 71% of 34 cases in five newspaper arti des.
			This progressive decline in performance cor­ responds to the progressive decline in the amount of syntactic information in the input to reference resolution.
			To summarize the latter decline, Lap­ pin and Leass (1994) had the following components in their algorithm.
			1.
			INPUT: fully parsed sentences with grammati­.
			cal roles and head-argument and head-adjunct relations 2.
			Intrasentential syntactic filter based on syntactic.
			noncoreference 3.
			Morphological filter based on person, number,.
			and gender features
	
	
			rocals 6.
			Salience computation based on grammatical.
			role, grammatical parallelism, frequency of men­ tion, proximity, and sentence recency 7.
			Global salience computation for noun phrases.
			(NPs) in equivalence classes (with seven salience factors) 8.
			Decision proced ure for choosing among equally.
			preferred candidate antecedents Kennedy and Boguraev (1996) approximated the above components with a poorer syntactic input, which is an output of a part-of-speech tagger with grammatical function information, plus NPs recog­ nized by finite-state patterns and NPs' adjunct and subordination contexts recognized by heuristics.
			With this input, grammatical functions and prece­ dence relations were used to approximate 2 and
	
	
			additional salience factors were used in 7, and a preference for intraclausal antecedents was added in 6; 3 and 8 were the same.
			The present algorithm works with an even poorer syntactic input, as summarized here.
			1.
			INPUT: a set of finite-state approximations of.
			sentence parts, which can be overlapping or dis­ contiguous, with no grammatical function, sub­ ordination, or adjunct information.
			2.
			No disjoint reference filter is used..
			3.
			Morphological filter is used..
			4.
			Pleonastic pronouns are recognized with.
			finite­ state patterns.
			5.
			Reflexives simply limit the search to the.
			current sentence, with no attempt at recognizing coar­ guments.
			No reciprocals are treated.
	
	
			based on linear order and recency.
			No grammatical parallelism is recognized.
	
	
			entity objects whose 'current' positions are always the most recent mentions.
	
	
			no decision procedure is needed.
			Given how little syntactic information is used in FASTUS reference resolution, the 71% accuracy in pronoun resolution is perhaps unexpectedly high.
			This perhaps shows that linear ordering and re­ cency are major indicators of salience, especially because grammatical functions correspond to con­ stituent ordering in English.
			The lack of disjoint reference filter is not the most frequent source of errors, and a coarse grained treatment of reflexives does not hurt very much, mainly because of the in­ frequency of reflexives.
			An Example Analysis In the IE context, the task of entity reference res­ olution is to recognize referential links among par­ tially described entities wit hin and across docu­ ments, which goes beyond third person pronouns and identity of reference.
			The expression types to be handled include bare nominals, possessed nomi­ nals, and indefinites, whose referential links tend to be more 'accidental' than textually signaled, and the referential links to be recognized include sub­ set, membership, and part-whole.
			Consider one of the five articles evaluated, the one wit h the most num ber and variety of referential links, for which FASTUS's performance was the poorest.
			Even for the 'core' anaphoric expressions of 20 definites, 14 pronouns, and 7 names limited 50 Expression Type Number of Occurrences Correctly Resolved Definites 25 10(40%) Pronouns 14 10(71%) Bare Nominals 12 3(25%) Proper Names 7 2(29%) Possessed Nominals 6 0(0%) Indefinites 3 0(0%) TOTAL 67 25( 37%) Table 3: Referential Links in the Exam ple to coreference, for which the code was prepared, the recall was only 51%.
			Figu re 1 shows this article annotated with ref­ erential indices.
			The same index indicates corefer­ ence.
			Index subscripts (such as 4a) indicate subset, part, or membership of another expression (e.g., indexed 4).
			The index number ordering, l,...,N, has no significance.
			Each sentence in the TEXT region is numbered with paragraph and sentence numbers, so, for instance, 21 is the first sentence in the second paragraph.
			Note that not all of these referential links need be recognized for each particular IE application.
			However, since reference resolution must consider all of the text for any particular application for the reason mentioned above, it is reasonable to assume that an ideal domain-independent reference resolu­ tion component should be able to recognize all of these.
			Is this a realistic goal, especially in an IE context?
			This question is left open for now.
			Error Analysis Table 3 shows the system's performance in recog­ nizing the referential links in this article, grouped by referring expression types.
			These exclude the initial mention of each referential chain.
			Notable sources of errors and necessary extensions are sum­ marized for each expression type here.
			Pronouns: Of the four pronoun resolution errors, one is due to a parse error ( American in 71 was incorrectly parsed as a person entity, to which she in 81 was resolved), that in 62 is a discourse deixis (Webber, 1988), beyond the scope of the current approach, and two errors ( it in 31 and its in 71) were due to the left-right ordering of intrasentential candidates.
			Recognition of par- 51 allelism among clause conjuncts and a stricter locality preference for possessive pronouns may help here.
			Definites: Of the fifteen incorrect resolutions of definites, five have nonidentity referential rela­ tionships, and hence were not handled.
			These nonidentity cases must be handled to avoid er­ roneous identity-only resolutions.
			Two errors were due to the failure to distinguish between generic and specific events.
			Token-referring def­ inites ( the union in 82 and the company in 91) were incorrectly resolved to recently mentioned types.
			Three errors were due to the failure to recognize synonyms between, for example, call (3 2) vs. request (31) and campaign (91) vs. strateg y (91).
			Other error sources are a failure in recognizing an appositive pattern (91), the left-right ordering of the candidates in the pre­ vious sentence (92) , and three 'bugs'.
			Proper Names: Name alias recognition was un­ usually poor (2 out of 7) because American was parsed as a person-denoting noun.
			The lower­ case print in Patt gibbs also made it difficult to link it with Ms. Gibbs.
			Such parse errors and input anomalies hurt performance.
			Bare Nominals: Since bare nominals were not explicitly resolved, the only correct resolutions (3 out of 12) were due to recognition of ap­ positive patterns.
			How can the other cases be treated?
			We need to understand the discou rse semantics of bare nominals better before devel­ oping an effective algorithm.
			Possessed Nominals: A systematic treatment of possessed nominals is a necessary extension.
			The basic algorithm will look like this-resolve the possessor entity A of the possessed nominal A's B, then if there is already an entity of type B associated with A mentioned anywhere in the preceding text, then this is the referent of B. Pos­ sessed nominal resolution also requires a 'syn­ onymy' computation to resolve, for example, its battle (91) to its corporate campaign (71).
			It also needs 'inferences' that rely on multiple suc­ cessful resolutions.
			For instance, her members in 81 must first resolve her to Ms. Gibbs, who HEADLINE: American Airlines1 Calls for Mediation1s In Its1 Union4 Talks2 DOCUMENT DATE: 02/09/87 SOURCE: WALL STREET JOURNAL 11 Amr corp.'s American Airlines1 unit said it1 has called for federal mediation1s in its1 contract talks2 with unions4 representing its1 pilots15 and flight attendants17.
			21 A spokesman for the company1 said American1 officials "felt talks2 had reached a point where mediation 1s would be helpful."
			22 Negotiations2a with the pilots1s have been going on for 11 months; talks2b with flight attendants17 began six months ago.
			31 The presidents of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants40, which represents American 1's more than 10,000 flight attendants17, called the request3 for mediation1s "premature" and characterized it3 as a bargaining tactic that could lead to a lockout.
			32 Patt gibbss, presidents of the association 40 , said talks2b with the company 1 seemed to be progressing well and the call3 for mediation 1s came as a surprise.
			41 The major outstanding issue in the negotiations 2b with the flight attendants17 is a two-tier wage scale, in which recent employees' salaries increase on a different scale than the salaries of employees who have worked at american 1 for a longer time.
			42 The union4a wants to narrow the differences between the new scale and the old one.
			51 The company1 declined to comment on the negotiations2b or the outstanding issues.
			52 Representatives for the 5,400-member Allied Pilots Association4b didn't return phone calls.
			61 Under the Federal Railway Labor Act, [if the mediator1sa fails to bring the two sides7 together and the two sides7 don't agree to binding arbitration, a 30-day cooling-off period follows]s. 62 After thats, the union7a can strike or the company70 can lock the union70 out.
			71 Ms. Gibbss said that in response to the companyi's move, hers union4a will be "escalating" its4a "corporate campaign" against American 1 over the next couple of months.
			72 In a corporate campaign10, a union9 tries to get a companys's financiers, investors, directors and other financial partners to pressure the companys to meet union9 demands.
			81 A corporate campaign10, shes said, appeals to hers members17 because "it10 is a nice, clean way to take a job action, and our4a women11 are hired to be nice."
			82 the union4a has decided not to strike, shes said.
			91 The union4a has hired a number of professional consultants14 in its4a battle1s with the company1, including Ray Rogersl4a of Corporate Campaign Inc., the New York labor consultant 140 who developed the strategy12 at Geo.
			A. Hormel & Co.13 's Austin, Minn., meatpacking plant last year.
			92 That campaign12, which included a strike, faltered when the companyu hired new workers and the International Meatpacking Union wrested control of the local union from Rogers14a ' supporters.
			Figure 1: Example Ar ticle Annotated with Referential Links 52 is president of the association, and this 'associa­ tion' is the Association of Professional Flight At­ tendants.
			After it is understood as 'the members of the Association of Professional Flight Atten­ dants,' the coreference with the flight attendants can be inferred.
			Similarly for our women in 81.
			Indefinites: Some indefinites are 'coreferential' to generic types, for example, a corporate campaign (72, 81).
			Given the difficulty in distinguishing between generic and specific event descriptions, it is u nclear whether it will ever be treated in a systematic way.
			Conclusions In an operational end-to-end discourse understand­ ing system, a reference resolution component must work with input data containing parse errors, lex­ icon gaps, and mistakes made by earlier reference resolution.
			In a state-of-the-art IE system such as SRI's FASTUS, reference resolution must work wit h considerably impoverished syntactic analysis of the input sentences.
			The present reference res­ olution approach within an IE system is robust and efficient, and performs pronoun resolution to an almost comparable level with a high-accuracy algorithm in the literature.
			Desirable extensions include nonidentity referential relationships, treat­ ments of bare nominals, possessed nominals, and indefinites, type-token distinctions, and recogni­ tion of synonyms.
			Another future direction is to turn this component into a corpus-based statisti­ cal approach using the relevant factors identified in the rule-based approach.
			The need for a large tagged corpus may be difficult to satisfy, however.
	
	
			This work was in part supported by U.S. govern­.
	
